have you ever heard someone talk about
utm parameters and you want to know what
that is
i'll tell you right now this is going to
be longer than a minute so save it for
later if you're not in the mood for this
content right now
okay a utm parameter is an extra little
bit of information that you put into a
url on your website or in social media
so that when you go to look at your
google analytics later you know exactly
where people came from
your utm parameter can have three parts
source
medium and campaign
source is where the traffic came from
like tik tok instagram google
medium is what kind of traffic it is
organic paid email referral and then
campaign is something you can
specifically set so you can
differentiate different campaigns you're
running different places you're putting
your link etc
here's an example from my actual google
analytics google analytics doesn't
always recognize when people come from
my tick tock link in bio often that was
showing up as direct traffic so i put
custom parameters into my link and bio
so that tic tac toe shows up as tick
tock social whereas instagram shows up
as instagram social you can see i also
have active campaign email i also set
that with custom parameters these are
especially helpful if you're running ads
with a platform outside of google google
ads and google analytics will talk to
each other so you don't really need to
have utm parameters there but if you're
running facebook ads and you don't put
in custom utm parameters then all the
people who come to your website from ads
will look the exact same in google
analytics as people who came organically
we don't want that so in facebook ads
you would want to put a custom medium of
cpc cost per click to distinguish your
facebook source traffic from your
regular facebook referral traffic
if you want to build your own utm
parameters it's really easy i just
google utm parameters builder because i
can never remember the link
and if you google that the first result
will be from google analytics it shows
you exactly how to build your own custom
urls to use them wherever you're driving
people to your website
i'm jill i worked at google for six
years and now i'm a digital marketing
consultant coach and teacher feel free
to ask me anything in the comments